14,40,0,17,-13,40-41,0,0,0,0,0,0,65-67,0,0,38-42,0,35-37,0,0,[-5;-4;-3],0,0,0,54-56,0,25-28
National Zoo Panda Gives Birth
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/21/us/national-zoo-panda-cub.html
Mei Xiang, a 22-year-old giant panda at the Smithsonian zoo in Washington, D.C., is the oldest
panda to give birth in the United States, officials said.
After days of speculation and anticipation, a giant panda at the Smithsonian National Zoo in
Washington gave birth to a cub on Friday evening, the zoo announced.
Mother and cub were doing well.
The panda, Mei Xiang, gave birth around 6:35 p.m. and was "nursing her cub and cuddling it
close," the zoo said in a tweet.
After more than three hours of labor, Mei Xiang, who was lying on her side, honked a few times
as she gave birth, rose and picked up her cub, said Brandie Smith, deputy director of the zoo.
Soon after, the cub began squeaking.
The cub was a "tiny little pink bald thing," she said, adding that a panda cub's size is often
compared to a stick of butter.
For the first week of the cub's life, Mei Xiang will stay in her den without eating or drinking
while she cares for her newborn, Ms. Smith said. When the zookeepers see her leave her den for
the first time, they will enter to do a quick exam on the cub.
"We know from her history that she's a good mom, and she's going to take care of that cub,"
she added.
Zookeepers will monitor the pandas over video. About half of all giant panda births are twins,
so staff members are on "twin watch." If another cub is born,  it would happen within 24 hours
of the first birth.
This is Mei Xiang's fourth cub, said Pamela Baker-Masson, the zoo's associate director of
communications and exhibits. Her three others live in China.
The latest arrival, which some deemed a miracle because of Mei Xiang's age, was viewed as a cause
for celebration by many as the nation struggles amid the coronavirus pandemic at a time of
political divisiveness. At 22 years old, Mei Xiang had a 1 percent chance of a successful birth.
She is the oldest panda in the U.S. to give birth.
In a statement on Instagram, the zoo said the birth was "joyous news" and that zookeepers were
listening for loud squeals from the cub, a sign that it is healthy.
The zookeepers are "genuinely thrilled" about the birth, Ms. Baker-Masson said.
"The cub has made some strong vocalizations," she added. "They watched Mei Xiang pick up the cub
immediately and do all the right things."
